DOCS-8624-Scripting-upgrade-edits-kt (#927)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: scripting/2.0/modules/ROOT/pages/edits/scripting-module-upgrade-migrate.adoc

= Upgrade Scripting Module to Version 2.0 - Mule 4
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> Upgrade Scripting Module to version 2.0.0.

Reviewer: Can we put some other intro in here besides repeating the title?

== Supported Upgrade Paths

[%header,cols="50a,50a"]
|===
|From Version | To Version
|1.1.7 |2.0.0
|===

== Changes in This Release

This release contains the following changes:

> * Scripting Module no longer provides default scripting engines:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Because the Scripting module no longer provides default scripting engines, perform one of the following actions:
```
OR
* Because the Scripting module no longer provides default scripting engines, perform both of the following actions:

> ** Use the *Configure...* helper button to install your desired engines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Use the *Configure...* button to install desired engines.
```

> ** Specify the desired engine in the `pom.xml` file of your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Specify desired engines in the `pom.xml` file of your application.
```

> * For any data stream provided in the payload or variables, a cursor object opens and binds, preventing the need for you to open new cursors. Any `openCursor()` provided to the Scripting Module closes after the script execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For any data stream provided in the payload or variables, a cursor object opens and binds so that you need not open new cursors. 
Any `openCursor()` element provided to the Scripting module closes after the script finishes.
```

== Upgrade Prerequisites

> Before you perform the upgrade, you must complete the following:
> 
> * Create a backup of your files, data, and configurations in case you need to restore to them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you perform the upgrade, you must create a backup of your files, data, and configurations in case you need to restore to them.
```

== Upgrade Steps

Follow these steps to perform the upgrade:

. In Anypoint Studio, create a Mule project.
. In *Mule Palette*, click *Search in Exchange*.

> . In *Add Dependencies to Project*, enter  in the search field.

Reviewer: Enter what in the search field?

. In *Available modules*, select `Scripting Module` and click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

> . Verify that the `mule-scripting-module` dependency version is `2.0.0` in the file in the Mule project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that the `mule-scripting-module` dependency version is `2.0.0` in the Mule project file.
```

Studio upgrades the connector version automatically.

> == Post Upgrade Steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Post-Upgrade Steps
```

> After you install the latest version of the connector, add a `jsr-223` compliant scripting engine:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you install the latest version of the connector, add a `jsr-223`-compliant scripting engine:
```

> . In Anypoint Studio, navigate to the *Execute* tab operation of your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In Anypoint Studio, navigate to the *Execute* tab  and location the operation of your application.
```

> . Use one of the following two options to install and configure a `jsr-223` compliant engine: +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Use one of the following two options to install and configure a `jsr-223`-compliant engine: +
```

* In the *Required Libraries* section, click *Configure...* and select one of the following options to search and install the engine: +

** Add recommended libraries +

> Install Groovy engine as recommended. This option only appears if you did not previously install Groovy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install Groovy engine as recommended. This option appears only if you did not previously install Groovy.
```

** Use local file +
Browse a local file for the required engine library and install it.
** Add Maven dependency +
Browse the engine dependency and install it. +

* In the `pom.xml` file, manually add the engine in both of these sections:
** `<sharedLibraries>` tags under the `<configuration>` section
** `<dependency>` tags under the `<dependencies>` section

[start=5]
. In the *General* section of the *Execute* tab, click the refresh button to update the engine values list for the operation.
. In *Engine*, select the installed engine.

=== Verify the Upgrade

> After you install the latest version of the connector, verify the upgrade:

Reviewer: Does the user perform this before or after post-upgrade steps? Clarify.
Also, I would make this a separate, peer task, or add it to the Upgrade task as the final step with substeps, but I would not make it a solitary subtopic.

. In Studio, verify that there are no errors in the *Problems* or *Console* views.

> . Verify that there are no problems in the project  file.

Reviewer: extra space
```suggestion
. Verify that there are no problems in the project file.
```

. Test the connection to verify that the operations work.

== Troubleshooting

> 

Reviewer: Suggest inserting a short intro to the issues here.

> * Engine names display visibility +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Engine name inconsistency +
```

> When you see different engine names in the Studio configuration tab and Configuration XML tab, engine names display differently than in previous Scripting Module versions. This occurs because the engine company defines and provides an identifier for both the engine and language name, for example:

Reviewer: Here and GLOBALLY, be sure to put actual UI labels in bold (* *) but types in plain lowercase.

Reviewer: This is just a guess...:
```suggestion
Because engine companies provide and define the engine and language names, you might notice inconsistency between the Studio configuration tab and the *Configuration XML* tab:
```

[%header,cols="50a,50a,50a"]
|===
|Engine Name| Studio Configuration | Configuration XML
|Jython |Jython | Python
|Groovy |Groovy Scripting Engine | Groovy
|Nashorn (JavaScript) |Oracle Nashorn | ECMASCript
|===

* Jython engine +

> When you use a Jython engine that's not a standalone version in Scripting Module v2.0, the application does not work. Previous Scripting Module versions worked with Jython engines that were not standalone versions. Use `jython-standalone` version for Scripting Module v2.0. For additional information, see xref:scripting-module-xml-maven.adoc[Scripting Module XML and Maven Support].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although previous Scripting Module versions worked with Jython engines that were not standalone versions, using a Jython engine that's not a standalone version in Scripting Module v2.0 causes the application to fail. Use `jython-standalone` version for Scripting Module v2.0. For additional information, see Scripting Module XML and Maven Support.
```

> 

Reviewer: We need not provide a description for the Groovy scripting engine?

* Oracle Nashorn engine +

> When you see Oracle Nashorn (ECMASCript) engine as an available option to select in the Studio configuration tab without the necessity to install or configure it, this indicates that some versions of JVM (Java Virtual Machine) previously installed and use the engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you see Oracle Nashorn (ECMASCript) engine as an available option in the Studio configuration tab, JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is already installed and in use. You need not install or configure it.
```

> === Reverting the Upgrade

Reviewer: I think it is better to make this a peer topic rather than a solitary subtopic to Troubleshooting.
If this is in the template, would you please discuss changing it with the team?
```suggestion
== Reverting the Upgrade
```

> If it is necessary to revert to the previous version of Scripting Module, in Anypoint Studio do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to revert to the previous version of Scripting Module, go to Anypoint Studio and do the following:
```

. In the project’s `pom.xml` file, change the `mule-scripting-module` dependency version `2.0.0` to the previous version, and delete the engine dependency used from the `<dependecies>` section.

> . Return to the *Execute* tab and in the *Engine* section, select one of the default engines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Return to the *Execute* tab and, in the *Engine* section, select one of the default engines.
```
